74 Change Contexts

"On a circle, an end point can also be a starting point."

An idea or thing takes its meaning from the context in which you put it.
If you change its context, it will take on a different meaning.

For example, if you say, "Make me one with everything" to a teacher of religious mysticism, it signifies one thing, but to a hot-dog venter it means something quite different.

Similarly, if an amusement park operator tells a middle-aged man, "I'll bring out the kid in you," one set of expectations will be created; but if an obstetrician says this to a woman in labor, a different result will occur.

Thus, changing context is a good way to discover the possibilities of your resources.

A classic example of someone who did this is the 15th century German inventor Johannes Gutenberg. Gutenberg combined two previously unconnected ideas: the wine press and the coin punch.

The Purpose of the coin punch was to leave an image on a small area such as a gold coin. The function of the wine press was, and still is, to apply force over a large area to squeeze out the juice of grapes. One day, Gutenberg, perhaps after he'd drunk a goblet or two of wine, asked himself:
  "What if I took a bunch of these coin punches and put them under the force of the winepress so that they left their image on paper?"
The resulting combination was the print press and moveable type.

Another Example is the artist Pablo Picasso. One day he went outside his house and found an old bicycle. He looked at it for a little bit, and removed the seat and then the handle bars. Then he welded them together to create the head of a bull.

By simply playing with the context in which we think about things, we can transform one thing into another.

The Nobel prize winning physician Albert Szent-Györgyi put it well when he said:

"Discovery consists of looking at the same thing as everyone else, and thinking something different."

* How can you reframe a current issue?
* In what other contexts can you put your resources?
